# Introduction
This repository is part of SSMILE (Stochastic Structured Models Integrating Layered Entities) simulator. It is used to structure the physical objects to be simulated and to represent them in a way which is space efficient. At the moment this library is under active development but this is the list of features which it is expected to ship with:
- Support for graph rewriting graphs as a way to represent committed steps to evolve the topology.
- Support for node abstraction, where nodes are derived as subsets of other graphs.
- Support for multiple relations based on the same domain set.
- Automatically collapse equivalent objects in equivalence classes to limit the memory needed to represent them.
- Support for unique objects which cannot be collapsed into equivalence classes.
- Support for serialization, allowing you to load and store everything in json files.
- Support for visualization, mainly through the generation of dot files.
- Object sampling in a class.

Basically with this library you are able to generate arbitrary graphs, to collapse together graphs which are equivalent, having multiple orthogonal relations defined over the same domain set, so same nodes, but multiple sets of arches. You can manipulate, create and destroy graphs in the data structure by applying a graph rewrite graph to it, basially a program represented as a graph.

# Directory structure
Directories are organized in the following structure:
- **opt**: the external components.
- **src**: the actual C++ files to be compiled into the exported library.
- **apps**: C++ subprojects to be compiled and linked based on the exported library.
- **test-suite**: C++ sub-projects used to test the library.
- **benchmark-suite**: C++ sub-projects used to test performance of the library.
- **scripts**: folder with utility scripts.
- **header**: .h files for this framework.
- **docs**: the documentation of the project.
- **private**: temporary storage for uncompleted stuff stored only locally.

# Compiling
The compiling process is based on cmake. Please check you have a recent version installed on your system and a proper toolchain.
It is also suggested to have **clang-format** or any other prettyfier installed as the code generated by these tools is not well formatted.
>
`git submodule update --init --recursive`
`mkdir build`
`cd build`
`cmake -D CMAKE_C_COMPILER=clang-10 -D CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=clang++-10 -D CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS="-stdlib=libc++" ..`
`make all -j8`

You can also use `make test` to execute all the tests the library comes with, and `make doxygen` to generate its documentation.

By default cmake does not support any target yet. If you want to generate faster code you could enable O3 optimizations:
>
`cmake -D CMAKE_C_COMPILER=clang-10 -D CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=clang++-10 -D CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS="-stdlib=libc++ -O3" ..`

# Licence
Not provided yet.